---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-06-22
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-06-22
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2018-06-22

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Jun/0002.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/06/22-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Simon Steyskal, Ivan Herman, Adam Soroka, Benjamin Young, David I. Lehn, Gregg Kellogg, Harold Solbrig, David Newbury

**Regrets:** Tim Cole, Leonard Rosenthol, Dave Longley, Jeff Mixter, Axel Polleres

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Simon Steyskal, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Rob Sanderson:* Morning!

### 1. Welcome & Introduction
{: #section1}

**Rob Sanderson:** we'll make a short introduction round and will go over the charter  
… giving an overview about the wg's working mode  
… TPAC is in October, we'll have a meeting there and registration is already open  

**Rob Sanderson:** semantic architect for gettys trust, I'm one of the chairs of the group  
… have also been the chair of the annotation WG  
… we use json-ld @ getty, also in a profile of a complicated museum ontology  
… bridge the gap between pure semantic web folks and web developers that don't care so much about semantic stuff but want to get stuff done  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm the staff contact for this group, I'm used to be the activity lead for SW  
… I have a long relationship with json-ld, done a lot in publishing WGs  
… I'm now drawn back in a SW WG again  
… we are active in the web publication WG, the manifest will be based on json-ld & schema.org  
… so another use(r) of json-ld  

**Adam Soroka:** from the apache foundation  
… we have a prime interest in being able to bring together information from various domains  
… RDF and json-ld are the way to go there  
… the apache side is very eager to contribute and see what kind of implementations are being realized  

**Benjamin Young:** worked with ivan in the annotation WG  
… co-chairing this WG  
… I'm with Wiley  

**Harold Solbrig:** I'm with the Mayo Clinic  
… some communities we work with realized that they need readability/accessability of JSON  
… my interest is primarily based on keeping ShEx aligned with JSON-LD  

> *David I. Lehn:* Hi, I'm David Lehn with Digital Bazaar.  We've been involved with JSON-LD since the early days and continue to use and promote it for many uses.  I've been involved in part in the specs, website, and js and python implementations.

**Gregg Kellogg:** I'm one of the 3 editors of JSON-LD 1.0 recs  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://www.w3.org/community/json-ld/](https://www.w3.org/community/json-ld/)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://json-ld.org/presentations/JSON-LD-Update-TPAC-2017](https://json-ld.org/presentations/JSON-LD-Update-TPAC-2017)

**Gregg Kellogg:** I resurrected the JSON-LD CD and we worked together on serialization/syntax/API and framing  
… this document highlights the things the group wanted to work on  

**Simon Steyskal:** I'm with Vienna university, together with Axel Polleres. Also research scientist at Siemens. Mostly have university hat on for W3C  
… joined as because craving some standardization activities. Was in SHACL group, and ODRL with Ivan.  
… Both have finished. Content wise, interested in JSON-LD 1.1 through work at Siemens by reading through framing.  Describes the _shape_ of the document, so see connection to ShEx / SHACL  
… from Axel, he says I should say that he is interested to see how nested lists in RDF can be included  

**David Newbury:** David Newbury, I'm working with rob on linked data stuff  
… figuring out how to do all the implementation stuff related to json-ld  
… that's my goal for this wg  

### 2. overview of the charter
{: #section2}

**charter:** https://www.w3.org/2018/03/jsonld-wg-charter.html  

**Ivan Herman:** the interest W3C has in this WG is the potential bridge JSON-LD provides  
… bringing together SW and non-SW folks  
… the charter starts with 3 documents  
… we have the possibility to split a document into two recs if we feel that it gets too long  
… especially things regarding HTTP  
… we may want to have a separate note on how things would look like in YAML  
… or other things we might consider being worthwhile  
… there are things we deliberately left out, like RDF Normalisation and Linked Data Signatures  
… we try to be more normalized with RDF terms than 1.0 was  
… other things are related to privacy issues  
… i.e. downloading the same context file multiple times could allow others to trace your activities  
… we should also look at optimization/efficiency issues in more detail  
… timeline-wise, we hoped to have a WG with a lifespan of 1 1/2 years  
… but due to mentioned privacy issues, we decided to make it 2 years  
… FPWD is planned to be published in September (earlier is also possible)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we did have a chat with Web of Things, so they might join our calls at some point  
… we might need a way to be able to reference a context file without having the need to download it  
… we have to look for ways of addressing the complexity of our specs  
… esp. wrt. illegal values  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* profile might mean form (expanded, compacted, …) use of specific context or frame.

**Rob Sanderson:** we were urged by google and others to not break existing JSON-LD documents  
… other things of interest include verifying whether a document conforms to a certain profile  

### 3. Working Mode
{: #section3}

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/WorkMode/](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/WorkMode/)

**Ivan Herman:** this document was reviewed by the chairs  
… if something is missing, please just make a pull request  
… we are heavily github based  
… all 3 documents we have are on separate github repos  
… we like to have all minor and major issues resolved via github issues  
… we've added a lot of labels, so please make use of them  
… ask questions!  
… Mailing lists will mostly be used for admin stuff  
… very generic discussions might also be done there, but for the most things please use github  
… we have a call each week, 9h difference between some members of the WG  
… I hope this timing works for most members, we'll look at it again in 2-3 months  
… think about non-english natives and talk slower if possible  
… each WG has a wiki, you can be assigned to review issues/be referenced in issues etc.  

**Rob Sanderson:** please do speak up if you are not familiar with certain jargon/words/phrases  
… we as chairs/staff contact will make sure to highlight whether we have our participant or chair hat on  
… we certainly also have our opinions, but sometimes have to make certain decisions to keep things going  
… we might decide to shift discussions to github/mail etc.  

**Ivan Herman:** you can queue up with q+, don't just talk over everyone else  
… you can remove yourself from the queue with q-  
… we try to encourage a distributed way of making decisions  
… so any decision we make on a call, becomes "official" after a week (i.e. the next call)  

**Benjamin Young:** please use /me for things you dont want to have in the minutes  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we currently have 4 different repos, all of which have issue lists  
… how we want to manage those cross-over issues?  

> *Benjamin Young:* Our repos list: [https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Ajson-ld-wg+org%3Aw3c&type=Repositories](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Ajson-ld-wg+org%3Aw3c&type=Repositories)

**Rob Sanderson:** we'll move over issues from the community group  

**Adam Soroka:** github does have the ability to have "projects" which may or may not be a way to manage the issue gkellogg mentioned  

**Ivan Herman:** it's up to the WG to use projects  

**Benjamin Young:** we won't be able to use projects on the organization level (that being W3C)  
… but we could make it as part of the json-ld organization  

**Ivan Herman:** W3C has a process of regularly backing up its github content  
… so I don't think it would be beneficial to move it outside the w3c scope  

### 4. TPAC
{: #section4}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/10/TPAC/](https://www.w3.org/2018/10/TPAC/)

**Rob Sanderson:** end of October in Lyon, France  
… we'll have a 2 day F2F meeting  
… the more people we are the better  
… the registration for TPAC is already open, the prices have been gone up (again)  
… the early bird rate ends at the end of July  
… [some issues regarding hotel rates mentioned]  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/10/TPAC/schedule.html#Thursday](https://www.w3.org/2018/10/TPAC/schedule.html#Thursday)

**Benjamin Young:** WG is meeting on Thursday/Friday  
… if you can make it for the whole week, I can highly recommend it  

**Ivan Herman:** this WG exists, because of a ad-hoc meeting @ last year's TPAC  

**Rob Sanderson:** there will likely be other F2F meetings outside of TPAC  
… if people are interested in hosting them, let us chairs know  
… also if couple of members are going to the same conference this could also be a good opportunity to meet  
… next Friday same time, we'll meet again  

---
