---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-08-10
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-08-10
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2018-08-10

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Aug/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/08/10-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Adam Soroka, Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Jeff Mixter, Tim Cole, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman, Harold Solbrig, Dave Longley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Tim Cole, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of last call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of last call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-03-json-ld** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of last call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-03-json-ld***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** reminder about TPAC  
… any other announcements?  
… hearing no further announcement, move to next  

### 3. Add API support for lists containing lists (PR)
{: #section3}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/16](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/16)

**Gregg Kellogg:** we don't have an issue for PR 16, json-ld api, but we need input  

**Rob Sanderson:** how much discussion does PR need?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think we approved the idea, we would like another implementation to make sure we've got it right for the PR  

**Rob Sanderson:** Dave Longley could be helpful, but not on call  

**Ivan Herman:** procedural - this PR is a new feature not in the Community Report, so we need to make sure we list it  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is a recently added entry in the changes since 1.0  

**Ivan Herman:** thanks  

#### 3.1. Relationship to other implementers
{: #section3-1}

**Benjamin Young:** about getting more implementers in the room  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/pull/667](https://github.com/json-ld/json-ld.org/pull/667)

**Benjamin Young:** I've been reaching out to other developers and json-ld.org  
… hoping that will at least watch repositories  
… is this something that needs the 1.1 toggle? OR can json 1.0 handle it?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** 1.0 processor might generate a list of list error  
… it's a matter of what happens when a processor encounters it  
… in the test suite there is an option for this  
… this does not require to put the processor in the 1.1 mode  
… but we could discuss / debate  
… there is no change in the context processing  

**Benjamin Young:** as I talk to implementers, there's always the 'we'll implement it when it's ready'  
… so is this the kind of thing that they could start working on ahead of final 1.1 syntax rollout  
… encourage implementers to get started on new features as soon as viable  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I try to test as the API changes go into the draft spec  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to longer versioning discussion later

**Ivan Herman:** would like to take versioning / signaling probably needs a longer discussion independent of this PR  
… let's add it to a near term agenda  

**Gregg Kellogg:** bigbluehat raised question of when features are stable enough to begin implementing  
… so do we need some form of a statement of when developer can implement something without having to worry about it going away  

**Rob Sanderson:** good if worded carefully so we don't paint ourselves into a corner  
… for example, in the frozen and sealed context, we may come up with a solution that is different than some change the CG came up with  
… so we could say something like, 'lacking further reasoning, we accept the CG drafts, but...'  

**Ivan Herman:** even that may be too much. There may be features CG added that don't fit with WG criteria/charge  
… so we have to be very careful.  
… I remember from RDFa group that some of us went through implementation for features subsequently thrown out.  

**Benjamin Young:** to clarify, I wasn't wanting promises outside normal publishing cycle, but would like others to be paying attention  
… so they can see what's happening and get ready for, and if excited take a crack at it to inform our discussions.  
… looking for ways to involve developers sooner rather than later  

**Rob Sanderson:** back to PR do we need to wait for further review?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** not urgent, and we have some review already, but would like for this and future PRs to make sure changes we make to API are up to snuff  

### 4. Documentation Issues
{: #section4}

**Rob Sanderson:** issue #32 was split into 4 potential issues, 3 of which have been written up and Manu commented about the 4th  
… propose we discuss in order, 40, 42, 43  

#### 4.1. Inline metadata escaping
{: #section4-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* Link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/40](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/40)

**Rob Sanderson:** Harold send regrets, but clarified end of line question that came up  
… proposal is that we use '@@' to indicate that the following value is not processed.  
… processors not expected to retain through any transformation  
… convention is that '@@' and its value must be ignored  
… so, we reserve '@@' and is should not appear in a context  
… what do we all think about that proposal  

**Gregg Kellogg:** two-fold concerns - example he points to, the comment is outside the context  
… second, is aesthetic  

**Benjamin Young:** example also shows using the key over and over, which creates duplicate keys  

**Rob Sanderson:** my objection is that proposal is really a bikeshed paint color on @comment  
… not what we want  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we now have 5 minuses on this issue, should we consider that as a vote by itself?  

**Ivan Herman:** in another group this led to problems; thumbs up and thumbs down not frozen, so we cannot rely on github comments for formal vote  

**Adam Soroka:** if i understand correctly we can't use github to record votes, we could use it to vote and then record these votes in the minutes  
… if its convenient  

**Ivan Herman:** in this case all the thumbs down are members of the WG, but in general we should be careful not to record non-WG votes  

> **Proposed resolution: Close #40 wontfix.** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Close #40 wontfix.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

#### 4.2. @documentation keyword
{: #section4-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* Link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/42](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/42)

**Tim Cole:** This stems in part from the discussion last week and on #32 that we should allow use of a keyword like @documentation that can point to external information about a context or frame  
… there were a couple constraints suggested that it could appear only at the root of the context and not within term definitions  
… Avoids allowing people to put @documentation everywhere.  Ivan mentioned documenting data.  This lets you connect something to the context  
… it's at times unnecessary, if you've done a good job like schema has.  But there is value in having human readable information about the scheme you're using as a whole  
… so I still like the idea  

**Benjamin Young:** reasonable as a fallback to next approach we will discuss  
… my concern is that key will be mis-used, e.g., for each term definition  
… people will expect that they can use it wherever  
… could even start showing up in data  
… may not be avoidable  

**Gregg Kellogg:** well if it does show up outside of context it will be ignored  
… there is evidence that use of @ is already an issue  
… within in term definitions if it appeared that would generate an error  
… other question to what extent is it ignored, e.g., should @documentation appear in compacted document  

> *Rob Sanderson:* (The @ as keyword issue: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/16](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/16) )

**Gregg Kellogg:** generally ambivalent, given that follow your nose works pretty well maybe not needed  
… could create questions we'll likely stumble over  

**Rob Sanderson:** to bigbluehat's point we could require that @documentation could only appear in particular places  
… but what does the group think about relationship to issue #16, should we table until we discuss that issue  
… for example, if we say non-defined keywords starting with @ not allowed, then any misuse would generate warning or error  

**Ivan Herman:** to clarify, @documentation is for context as a whole  
… but I could still put @documentation in a nested context  

**Rob Sanderson:** yes  

**Gregg Kellogg:** anywhere @version could exist, @documentation could exist  

**Ivan Herman:** co-context not nested  

**Benjamin Young:** continue to be concerned about scope creep  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1 to bigbluehat’s concern

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1 to bigbluehat's cocerns

**Adam Soroka:** my concern is similar, additionally not sure this meets the concern we started with  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to ajs6f

**Adam Soroka:** while this might be useful, may not align with original concern  

**Tim Cole:** In terms of benjamin's concern, I think that's a reason to defer until we face #16.  If we outlaw @keys except those defined, then the issue goes away as it's not a special case, it's just a misuse  
… I think Adam's concern is relevant, but that it is still useful to do  

**Rob Sanderson:** any further comments?  
… to summarize, there is general agreement that it doesn't really solve original use case from #32, but we generally have agreed we're not going to solve that  
… 2nd there is concern about mis-use, which might be affected by decision on issue #16  
… regardless of original, I think I've heard that documentation in general might be useful, but let's quantify  
… do we think documentation of context is a valuable thing to specify somehow?  

> *Ivan Herman:* 0

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* 0

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* 0

> *Benjamin Young:* 0

> *Jeff Mixter:* 0

**Ivan Herman:** my problem is that in practice I believe that proper documentation of data is really much more important  
… in practice people reuse other people's context, so this is secondary  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1 to ivan

**Rob Sanderson:** so while no one is dead set against it, there seems minimal support for the feature we should close, won't fix  
… and leave whether you'll use content negotiations as a best practice.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we decide not to go forward it doesn't mean that the issue has gone away, we could still talk about this in best practice  
… a way to solve without adding new features  

**Ivan Herman:** reason I raised issue #44, I'd rather make it easier for developers to use existing mechanisms  
… so we should focus on making it easier for users to make use of these mechanisms  

**Gregg Kellogg:** There are other mechanisms we’ve discussed for documenting a context that don’t require adding to the language, these should go in best practices.  

> **Proposed resolution: Close documentation issues as won't fix and defer a future best practice non-normative discussion** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Close documentation issues as won't fix and defer a future best practice non-normative discussion***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** can processors mix yaml and json-ld (and I can comment in yaml...)?  Can I decide to write my context in yaml?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we've opened the door, but we have not place normative requirements on processors  

**Benjamin Young:** you can write json file inside of yaml  
… is there work needed now (for best practices) on content-negotiation  

**Rob Sanderson:** let's come back to it a little later  

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1 to Ivan to not close

> *David I. Lehn:* i've put json-ld with comments in yaml files before and just processed the data into json later.  works fine.

**Ivan Herman:** may not want to close that issue but mark it as postponed  

**Rob Sanderson:** i will open a new issue to make sure we discuss later  

**Rob Sanderson:** do we need a best practice label?  

> ***Action #1: Rob to create new best practice issue, tracked back to 43,42,40,32 and whether WG or CG should do it***
{: #action1 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** do we or the CG make the best practices?  

**Rob Sanderson:** should we summarize the type issues to encourage comments over the next 7 days?  

### 5. @type issue block
{: #section5}

#### 5.1. Relax the colliding keywords constraint for @type
{: #section5-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link:  [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/4](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/4)

**Gregg Kellogg:** issue #4 would relax an existing constraint that only one alias for a keyword, e.g., both type and profile as aliases for @type  

**Rob Sanderson:** useful if coming from an existing json that has multiple ways to say the same thing  

**Benjamin Young:** examples would be good  

**Rob Sanderson:** we should reach out to original commenter  

> ***Action #2: Rob to put in pointer to #4***
{: #action2 .action}

> *Ivan Herman:* pointer is: [https://www.w3.org/2018/08/10-json-ld-irc#T16-57-15](https://www.w3.org/2018/08/10-json-ld-irc#T16-57-15)

#### 5.2. @type as @container:@set?
{: #section5-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* Link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/34](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/34)

**Gregg Kellogg:** issue #34 would allow us to use containers to put type in array form  

**Rob Sanderson:** what we wanted to do was have a resource with only a single type where the type was given in an array  
… if it can ever have multiple values, then it is always an array (json best practices)  
… but because type is defined by specification, in the context you can't specify that it is always an array.  
… the playground example shows that it doesn't work  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the concern (#7) is that the way type is expanded can be influenced by a number of things  

#### 5.3. Allow processing model of @type to be customized
{: #section5-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/7](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/7)

**Gregg Kellogg:** initial requestor wants to customize the model for this, CG had a lot of discussion, will review before next time.  

**Rob Sanderson:** please review the type issues and comment before next call.  
… adjourn.  

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of last call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-08-03-json-ld
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Close #40 wontfix.
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Close documentation issues as won't fix and defer a future best practice non-normative discussion

### 7. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Rob to create new best practice issue, tracked back to 43,42,40,32 and whether WG or CG should do it
* [Action #2](#action2): Rob to put in pointer to #4
