---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-10-05
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-10-05
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2018-10-05

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Oct/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/10/05-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Adam Soroka, Simon Steyskal, Benjamin Young, Tim Cole, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Jeff Mixter

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Tim Cole

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-28-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-28-json-ld)

### 1. Minutes approval
{: #section1}

**Benjamin Young:** any objections to the minutes as drafted?  

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of last call (https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-28-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of last call (https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-28-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. TPAC Reminder
{: #section2}

**Benjamin Young:** Agenda in progress in Google Doc  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qTLztv7nqbYuUsZbwhPhOyG5tHTJrTt9tGKWnD5Xa5A/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qTLztv7nqbYuUsZbwhPhOyG5tHTJrTt9tGKWnD5Xa5A/edit#)

**Ivan Herman:** most important item, there will be a list from organizers for evening dinners.  
… conference center a little distance from center of town  

**Benjamin Young:** there's a spot in Google Doc for suggesting dinner location  
… on Thursday  

**Ivan Herman:** just to be sure everyone got it, I have created WebEx details for remote  
… do not put the WebEx details out publicly  

**Rob Sanderson:** I have reached out to Manu and Dan B., Manu is tied up, but suggested Dave Longley will be his proxy in json-ld 1.1 discussions  
… Data Exchange WG has profile negotiation within their charter. We will talk that topic at 1:30 on Friday  
… 3 or 4 reps from Data Exchange will join us for this discussion  
… will ping Dan B. again  
… are there other groups we should try to interface with?  

**Benjamin Young:** Web of Things group?  or maybe that's more informal?  

**Ivan Herman:** publishing WG is mo-tue, group is json-ld and schema.org for WP manifest  
… could be a significant use case. So if any from this group want to / are available to join Publishing WG sessions, might be useful  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Will likely spend time at Pub WG  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

**Gregg Kellogg:** Can we first get update on continuous publication?  

**Ivan Herman:** it will be a token per document, and it's on my calendar for Monday  

**Rob Sanderson:** today we will revisit some issues previously discussed but still open  

#### 3.1. Infinite @reverse framing recursion (Gregg's findings)
{: #section3-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/5](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/5)

**Gregg Kellogg:** raises question about framing design criteria  
… if there is no frame to be matched, algo constructs one  
… so if you have something that infinitely recurses on @reverse, would mean a change to algo  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/5#issuecomment-426846317](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/5#issuecomment-426846317)

**Gregg Kellogg:** solution suggested in my latest comment is to use frame as really intended  
… you would create necessary children finitely  

**Rob Sanderson:** does this mean it works any differently for @reverse?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** not really. In the absence of a property in the reverse it would create it.  

**Rob Sanderson:** so if wanted to be explicit in the non-reverse direction you would just ???  

**Gregg Kellogg:** no change, but describe behavior / example in primer  

**Rob Sanderson:** questions?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* s/???/include them explicitly in the frame, the same as for @reverse/

**Rob Sanderson:** if not, how do we want to resolve? example in spec or note in primer?  

**Benjamin Young:** willing to take a crack at what should go into primer  

**Adam Soroka:** agree  

**Rob Sanderson:** a note in the spec and then a longer discussion in primer?  

> **Proposed resolution: Add a note to the framing spec about the asymmetry, and longer explanation with examples in the primer document for issue framing#5 on @reverse recursion** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Add a note to the framing spec about the asymmetry, and longer explanation with examples in the primer document for issue framing#5 on @reverse recursion***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

#### 3.2. Fate of primer and related documents
{: #section3-2}

**Ivan Herman:** related question - we are talking about the primer, but I'm a little concerned that it will become a bit of a dumping ground  
… need someone to step up and actively take on the primer (and maybe someone else help Greg as editor of main specs)  

**Adam Soroka:** possibility that one rule of thumb we could use, primer should be for people not familiar with json-ld, but may need a separate doc for real best practices  

**Ivan Herman:** we can discuss at dinner at TPAC  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is a CG best practices that might serve as a starting point (or could be updated in place)  

> *Benjamin Young:* CG's primer [https://json-ld.org/primer/latest/](https://json-ld.org/primer/latest/)

> *Benjamin Young:* CG's best practices [https://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld-api-best-practices/](https://json-ld.org/spec/latest/json-ld-api-best-practices/)

**Gregg Kellogg:** for our primer, could we create a repo to make it easy to get started  

**Ivan Herman:** I will do this and will add link from WG, but wait until we have someone who is going to take it own  

**Benjamin Young:** we may want to migrate CG docs asap so we have somewhere to raise issues  

**Ivan Herman:** agree setting up repo is easy, but do we need to wait for editors, etc. so we now exactly how many repos to create  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/17](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/17) oh look! an issue related to this topic :)

**Rob Sanderson:** agree. Let's put it on the agenda for next week. By time of TPAC we will then have a start  

#### 3.3. Do not compact to string (Rob's new understanding)
{: #section3-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/33](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/33)

**Rob Sanderson:** next issue, not compact urls to string  
… raised in CG, suggested to use @id and @value to avoid this. @gkellog suggested @none.  
… because @none would go in the context, you are simply saying that object has no type declared in context  

**Ivan Herman:** the point is we do have this issue of using @type differently than how those of us from rdf world think of rdf:type  
… we need to be very, very clear about this.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the way to think about @type is more like datatype  
… really comes down to question of how different this concept is from original intent of @type (rdf:type)  
… @type @id says treat as is URI, @type @none just says there is no datatype so you can't compact down to a string  
… when we expand, do we default to something or do we raise error?  

**Rob Sanderson:** in the data @type is how you express rdf:type  
… we need to make obvious the aliasing of @type to type and explain in the primer  
… in terms of error vs. default when expanding, I would favor an error  
… picking (guessing) seems dangerous  

**Adam Soroka:** we can get into confusion about there is not a @type vs none  

**Gregg Kellogg:** when you expand a document and type is not specified default is treat them as simple literals  
… equivalent to saying default rdf:type is xsd:string  

> *Rob Sanderson:* `"value": {"@type": "@none"}`

> *Rob Sanderson:* `"value": "string"`

> *Rob Sanderson:* `"value": {"@id": "rdf:value"}`

**Rob Sanderson:** if we had @type @none for value then if in the data value : string, would be treated as a string  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if in the context, would mean value is alias for string, if in data, either treated as error or treated as string  

> *Rob Sanderson:* `{"@context": {"value1": {"@id": "rdf:value", "@type": "@none"}, "value2": {"@id": "rdf:value"}}` ...

> *Rob Sanderson:* "value1": "string", "value2: "string"}

**Rob Sanderson:** for the above example, both would be understood the same  

**Gregg Kellogg:** or value1 would generate an error  

**Benjamin Young:** want to make sure rest of us aren't just become spectators on this  

**Adam Soroka:** so in response to @bigbluehat, let me offer my understanding  
… so in rdf we distinguish between literals and strings  

> *Simon Steyskal:* -q

**Adam Soroka:** not the same in json-ld  
… so in json-ld @type is doing several things at once  
… so we keep adding more to what @type does, but it breaks down when moved into the rdf world  
… so some uses of @type will add triples, some will not  
… baked into the 2 different data models  
… if you alias @type it aliases both for rdf:type and as datatype in the json-ld documents  
… not good, but we are stuck with it, I think. So we need to document thoroughly  

**Rob Sanderson:** seems 100% correct to me  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, we are stuck with it, but nevertheless as a helping measure we could define a fixed alias and encouraging people to use alias differently  
… down the line could become separate keys  
… more than just a best practice, but also a temporizing solution  

**Gregg Kellogg:** these issues came up in 1.0, but it's good to mindful of the original json-ld which was find a way to understand your json as rdf  
… so this is why we have context, and this is why we have to deal with URIs vs Strings  
… we have discussed a default context (as a way to create default alias)  
… does create an issue when compacting, because one of the aliases has to win out  
… so round-tripping leads to these kinds of issues.  
… we are restricted a bit on what we do for 1.1 (may be able to do more for 2.0)  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Thus `{"@context": {"type": "@type", "@datatype": "@type"} ... }`  would allow people to use @datatype for data types, but compaction would always select one or the other for all situations

**Rob Sanderson:** so if we put aliases type and datatype, works for expansion, but would not roundtrip through compaction  
… so maybe datatype has to more than just a context item  

**Gregg Kellogg:** but it would break some compaction rules, so would require 1.1 being explicit  

**Rob Sanderson:** are we ready to move forward? Or do we need more time  

**Ivan Herman:** the latter  

> *Jeff Mixter:* I would like to mull this over more

**Rob Sanderson:** will make new issue about disambiguating different uses of @type  
… will provide a framework for resolving issue  

**Gregg Kellogg:** may take some time to resolve at f2f  

**Rob Sanderson:** please add initial thoughts and then expect we may discuss in greater detail at f2f  

> **Proposed resolution: Defer api#33 until after discussion of disambiguation of the uses of @type as rdf:type or datatype of the JSON object** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* If LD isn't about making the +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Defer api#33 until after discussion of disambiguation of the uses of @type as rdf:type or datatype of the JSON object***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

### 4. Misc
{: #section4}

**Ivan Herman:** next topic would be about embedded json (if we had time), this is a topic we need to discuss Dan B. and prioritize  

**Gregg Kellogg:** can we see if he could be available for call?  

**Rob Sanderson:** will try  

**Ivan Herman:** but if he's not available will need to wait until tpac  

**Benjamin Young:** proposal suggested last week is consistent with what schema.org does, but need to know if its what they want  

**Ivan Herman:** but what current tool does may not be relevant - seems like schema.org is working on major tool revision  

**Rob Sanderson:** will also need to address blank node issue with Davel Longley (as proxy for Manu)  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of last call (https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-28-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Add a note to the framing spec about the asymmetry, and longer explanation with examples in the primer document for issue framing#5 on @reverse recursion
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Defer api#33 until after discussion of disambiguation of the uses of @type as rdf:type or datatype of the JSON object