---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-09-28
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-09-28
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2018-09-28

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Sep/0019.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/09/28-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Adam Soroka, Gregg Kellogg, Rob Sanderson, Simon Steyskal, Ivan Herman, Jeff Mixter, David Newbury, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Tim Cole, Benjamin Young

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** David Newbury

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-21-json-ld** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* 0

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-21-json-ld***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** announcements.  TPAC, the standard update, though perhaps we should talk about logistics.  
… Rob has filled out the AV requirements, and each room comes with a screen, etc.  So we're OK.  
… in the next block, we will have agenda, and we will need to have WEBEX setup.  

**Ivan Herman:** If we need it, I will set up the webex.  Are there people who would want to dial in?  

> *Jeff Mixter:* that would be helpful for me - won't be able to attend in person

**Rob Sanderson:** There are at least two people who might want to dial in.  

**Ivan Herman:** then there will we webex:-)  

> ***Action #1: Ivan Herman to set up webex for TPAC***
{: #action1 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** The registration will go up on Monday.  Do it now.  

**Simon Steyskal:** Asking about the link--we were supposed to write our name somewhere, but I've misplaced it?  Do we need to do so?  

> *Ivan Herman:* link: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qTLztv7nqbYuUsZbwhPhOyG5tHTJrTt9tGKWnD5Xa5A/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qTLztv7nqbYuUsZbwhPhOyG5tHTJrTt9tGKWnD5Xa5A/edit)

### 3. Logistics
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. TPAC Agenda
{: #section3-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** We need to come up with an agenda.  
… Looking at the participants,  
… plus up to 20 other people who have not been on a call  
… one assumes that some of the observers will drop out, but here is the project link  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Project: [https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4)

**Rob Sanderson:** in the gihub project there is a column that is face-to-face where we've put some of the more involved or controversial discussions, plus ones where we'll need external contributors.  
… to get those people here, we need an agenda built.  
… if we can go over those seven topics, we can do some dragging of little cards around  

**Gregg Kellogg:** two uses cases for content-addressable.  Schema.org wants to announce that the context is not downloaded, but pre-compiled in and that would be announcable  
… the second would be web of things or similar where there's background signaling and off-line support, which is the gist of the content-addressable thing  
… so you can determine that a side-loaded file is a valid one to use  

**Rob Sanderson:** so we should talk to web of things, and dan  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Dan's likely there, and I'm sure we can get him to participate  

**David I. Lehn:** Another use case is caching--avoiding having lots of requests if you've got a local contact  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we have HTTP caching  

**Ivan Herman:** don't have to solve it now  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We should know what we're talking about so we can raise with other people  

**Ivan Herman:** #8 might not be that complicated  

**Rob Sanderson:** it's there so that the we can align with another working group  

**Rob Sanderson:** There's a question about #18--absence of being  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is about null and empty list  
… but that's a non-RDF list  
… it's not really even an OWL thing  
… you can talk about carnality, but not null--the pattern language thing is where that gets expressed.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I don't think it's a TPAC issue  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it's not so much emptiness, but RDF-like processing that happens outside of the RDF algorithms, and we're a bit scattered about it anyway  

**Rob Sanderson:** Those seven are good candidates, and there's nothing obvious, and we can work our way backwards if we finish those  
… oh, six  
… I will take on a draft agenda, and reach out to web of things, data exchange, and see if they can be present at any specific time to schedule those ones.  
… other things?  

> ***Action #2: Rob to draft agenda from issues plus other WG interactions***
{: #action2 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** Looking at this, I would expect that it would not completely fill out the two days.  
… I think we should discuss how we will attack the issue of testing implementation  
… the working group doesn't have a long charter, so we should be prepared.  
… Lots from previous working group, and I don't remember when the CR is to be published, but this might be the last face-to-face before that, and we should have an agreements about this beforehand.  
… we can at least start that conversation in person.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** We've also talked about other publications, non-normative ones, say, and splitting them, and we could talk about YAML, HTML, Named Graphs, and are pretty-large in our documents  

**Ivan Herman:** And I think that we've chatted about reorganizing the documents...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we've accomplished that already  

**Rob Sanderson:** Manu will be there, and we can talk about the blank node issues  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we can target, we can coordinate a time to talk about that, since he'll be there.  
… maybe find a time to do a joint session between us and Verifiable Claims?  
… or just crash their meetings  
… and I think we're going to need to be increasingly needing to raise the "more implementations" issue  

**Rob Sanderson:** that's a good set of things, and I'll circulate on the mailing list  

**Rob Sanderson:** anything else TPAC?  

#### 3.2. Echidna publishing
{: #section3-2}

**Rob Sanderson:** OK.  Moving onto publishing  
… This is the tool that lets up publish to W3C site with less hassle.  
… particularly without more systematic process for the first working draft.  

**Ivan Herman:** You've seen what this means for the first working draft  
… there are some details that we have to work out, but the goal is that we will have a separate branch in each repo and if we commit, there is a CI process that will create a new version of the specs  
… there are groups that do that frequently (every draft) and what usually happens is that each equilibrium point, t here is a draft.  This is a good example--it would be acceptable to do a publication right now, since it's better than what's out there now.  
… formally, we need a resolution for that.  
… to do an automatic publishing through the tool so he can get the API keys and the like.  

**Rob Sanderson:** do we have enough background on this?  

> **Proposed resolution: We will use echidna publishing WDs for all three rec track documents** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1+1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: We will use echidna publishing WDs for all three rec track documents***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** I'll get that set up next week.  

> ***Action #3: Ivan Herman to get the echidna API codes***
{: #action3 .action}

### 4. New Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. Fragment identifiers with ":"
{: #section4-1}

> *Ivan Herman:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/66](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/66)

**Rob Sanderson:** moving on to issues  
… This was discovered as a bug over the past day  
… We've been discussing it, and it's valid to have : in fragment ids, some we need to fix this in the spec  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think that issue is that JSON-LD does not have a syntax for compact IRIs vs. URLs like RDFa so you can recognize prefixes vs. what is a URI scheme  
… in this case, this is a bug  
… since the pound sign is not a scheme, and it's not a defined term  
… if it were, there wouldn't be a concern.  
… the case we're running across is that #test and #test:2 the first is a relative URI, since it's interpreted as a ID  
… so it's a IRI or a document-relative IRI.  The second case, it could be a compact IRI or an absolute IRI  
… by tightening up the language, it must either match a term or the scheme production and a hash test would not match that production  
… but there are other corner cases  
… where there are other places where the hash sign may occur  
… we need to come up with more breaking cases and tests  
… what about a:b where the base includes a hash?  
… a does match the production of the scheme, and could be an absolute IRI  

**Rob Sanderson:** so long as it's deterministic, but it's these cases where it's legal, but not permitted according to the algorithm where there's the issue  
… for fixing it, have we tried it?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I haven't fixed it, but I think it's straightforward if we tighten up what a URI scheme is  

**Rob Sanderson:** We can fix this in 1.1, but we should also errata 1.0  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think we should not change the requirements, but highlight the issue  

**Ivan Herman:** has it yet been submitted in the errata list?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** no  

**Ivan Herman:** We should document it  
… editorially, when we have the list of changes, we should make a reference to the errata so we can change 1.0 because it's a bug  

> **Proposed resolution: Accept the bug, submit errata 1.0 and fix in 1.1 by tightening the definition of a URI scheme** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** this is explicit in our charter  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Accept the bug, submit errata 1.0 and fix in 1.1 by tightening the definition of a URI scheme***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Adam Soroka:** Process:  When we submit an errata, are we supposed to do something, or is it an action?  

**Ivan Herman:** just describing it  

#### 4.2. `@vocab` property expansion
{: #section4-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* Link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/56](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/56)

**Rob Sanderson:** This one is about the expansion of @vocab properties and the issue claims that it is counter-intuitive  
… from my perspective, it goes back to #7 (won't-fix) that the processing model for @type shouldn't be able to customized  
… more than allowing @container: @set  
… to avoid monkeying around and overcomplicating  
… the response is that that fixes #7, but you can't fix this issue with scoped contexts  
… but Gregg has an example that fixes it...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** well.....  
… his feeling is that he's willing to do things in a context to hide this, but @base is restricted from being in a remote context, and that doesn't satisfy him  
… this is about discrepancies between vocabularies space and document space, where you can use @vocab: ""  
… and that might get to a point where you're not surprised, but there's overlap with Manu's blank-nodes as properties, where @vocab is a solution, but not a wide enough oe  
… maybe we need to make that a bit wider, make it any relative IRI relevant to the document base  
… in 1.0, you can generate an error with this, and we could make it document relevant, which widens what we can put in vocal, which handles both this and Manu's request  

**Rob Sanderson:** can you talk through why the first Barney expands this wy?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we look at Barney, it's value is a node definition.  In any context, ex2:barney evaluates to the URl  
… But fred has the value, with the value parnet  
… string values are intended to be treated as an IRI within the vocab space, so if barney is the string value of fred, we evaluate barney as vocab-relevant  
… there is no @vocab defined, but barney is a term, so we ill now interpret them as iris, so it's got a value of ex2:barney  
… so when we evaluate things in the vocabulary space, it will look to terms and compact IRIs  
… so it satisfies the term use case  
… when we look at it as ID, which makes it @id, which is in doc space, and we do not interpret things in that space relative to the vocabularies  
… in document space, it cannot be a bare term, so we don't evaluate it  
… it could have been barney:, which would work.  
… he asked why ID can't be treated in the vocab space, and that goes back to our decision  
… why didn't we want terms to be values?  
… since we allow compact terms?  
… typically, where you see this conflation, you are closer to being in the use case where you're defining a vocabulary  
… where it does make sense  

**Rob Sanderson:** was that clear?  

**Ivan Herman:** so I'm not ashamed to say, no.  
… It is because it is not complicated, bu what this means for us and readers, is that expansions, and the bifurcations, we should have that in a note and understand it  
… frankly, I don't have a clear idea how things work  
… the other comment is that we should have a rule that when an issue is put in, and when it has an example, the example should be reduced.  
… from the point of this issue, there are additional things that make things more complicated  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** we should really ask them to make it more simple and to be careful, since much here is not relevant  

**Adam Soroka:** whatever comes out of this, we might really need a note lays out the spaces around expansion, since the suspicion is that this arises because it's really hard to understand this  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think that the API document is fairly consistent is clear about this, and the people who are the most likely to be confused are unlikely to read this  
… so we're stuck with the JSON vocab, in turtle there are pnames or iris.  In JSON, we can't do that, so we need to discern the intent around meaning  
… thus the bifurcation between the spaces  
… it's laid out, and it's easy to get lost, and adding another note in syntax documents.  
… how much detail to be need to get into?  
… we need a primer  
… and we need a champion for that primer  

**Ivan Herman:** I get the problem, and it's not 1.0, it's just...terrible.  
… and I don't think it needs to be in the specification, and a primer would be the ideal place for it.  
… authors will never read the API, and I don't want to.  I just want to put data in JSON-LD  
… that's why the primer is required.  
… otherwise people will be lost  

**Jeff Mixter:** the explanation is helpful, and it would be helpful to have the example to be recreated to be realistic, and it's really confusing with freds and barneys  
… it might be better to have real-world examples  

**Rob Sanderson:** a complication with #33  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/33](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/33)

**Rob Sanderson:** It would be nice to have the Uris compact to not just ID, but also to @id.  Doesn't this mean changing the space?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the way I take this option is to not compact to allow properties, but not values  
… that things would remain in their expanded state.  
… doing this wouldn't add additional space  
… it's how you interpret string  values.  If you've got an object, it's unambiguous  

**Rob Sanderson:** If the context wanted ID: barney to be compacted to id: barney, and another term compacted to a string, then those two otherwise identical lines would have different value spaces  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if you were able to specify the value space of a term, as in the first comment of #33...I think the issues comes down to wanting to specifiy for a property when compacting, you want to compact the term, but not the value.  
… if you do this, it continues to be unambiguous, ...something about strings...  

**Rob Sanderson:** is there a proposal?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** do we need a issue to change the rules about @vocab to use relative IRIs in document space  
… I can create that issue  

**Ivan Herman:** I would like to move this to face-to-face  

**Gregg Kellogg:** sure  

**Rob Sanderson:** sure  

**Adam Soroka:** could we leave a note for the primer?  
… maybe a label?  
… about the spaces?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we should create an issue for the primer about that  

**Rob Sanderson:** gregg, create the issue about vocabs, adam, about the primer, and we'll defer this to face-t-face  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1 to that!

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call: https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-09-21-json-ld
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): We will use echidna publishing WDs for all three rec track documents
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Accept the bug, submit errata 1.0 and fix in 1.1 by tightening the definition of a URI scheme

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): Ivan Herman to set up webex for TPAC
* [Action #2](#action2): Rob to draft agenda from issues plus other WG interactions
* [Action #3](#action3): Ivan Herman to get the echidna API codes
