---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-30
title:  — 2018-11-30
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco  — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2018-11-30

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Nov/0030.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/30-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Benjamin Young, Tim Cole, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Rob Sanderson, Ivan Herman, Jeff Mixter, David Lehn

**Regrets:** Adam Soroka

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. approval of last week’s minutes
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-11-16-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-11-16-json-ld)

> **Proposed resolution: approve last weeks minutes** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0 (Absent)

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: approve last weeks minutes***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements
{: #section2}

> *Benjamin Young:* 2019 Spring Face-to-Face - February 7-8 (Thursday & Friday) in Washington, DC

**Benjamin Young:** we have a F2F meeting scheduled in Washington DC, at the Smithonian  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Thanks in absentia to Adam :)

**Benjamin Young:** Adam has confirmed the building  

**Ivan Herman:** how final is that? can we book tickets already?  

**Benjamin Young:** I will check with Adam today  

**Gregg Kellogg:** please also ask him for recommendations for lodging  

**Rob Sanderson:** is there a wikipage for registering for the F2F?  

**Ivan Herman:** I will set up a google doc  

### 3. Work mode overview: Editorial Drafts, Pull Requests, Discussions, and Resolutions
{: #section3}

**Benjamin Young:** there was an email from Greg about how we should handle the changes in the ED  
… any PR with apparent consensus on github is merged,  
… marking some of them as "at risk" if they need more discussion.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** as an *editor*'s draft, it reflects my understanding of the consensus of the group.  
… So my merging PR does not make those changes official,  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** so it should not automatically close the issue (which is what Github does).  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Sounds good to me. Connection is super terrible, apologies

### 4. Additional Editor(s)?
{: #section4}

**Benjamin Young:** As the only editor, Gregg has difficulties to keep track with all the issues.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** that's a task I would be interested in  
… that being said, I've only recently joined the group  
… so I'm afraid I may not be the most relevant person at the moment to do that  
… but if you think I'd be "better than nothing" than I'm happy to help  
… I do have experience as an editor  
… it was a document that was in the LDP WG  
… and have been a member of several WG's before  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to pchampin's offer to help!

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to PA

**Gregg Kellogg:** we need to discuss offline the technical specificities and editorial issues,  
… but github is a great help for collaborating on these things.  

> *Jeff Mixter:* I do not mind helping out either but I have to admit that I have 0 experience with this type of thing

### 5. Recent Changes/Merges (by way of quick explanation and awareness)
{: #section5}

**Benjamin Young:** there were 3 PRs merged between the codes  

> *Benjamin Young:* Mark blank node property labels as obsolete -   [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/90](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/90)

> *Benjamin Young:* Improve keyword descriptions -   [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/92](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/92)

> *Benjamin Young:* Html base -   [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/93](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/93)

**Gregg Kellogg:** aside note: there has been some heated debate on the SemWeb mailing list about bnodes as properties  
… but I think we should stick to strict RDF 1.1 and see what happens  

### 6. Pending PRs
{: #section6}

#### 6.1. Add example and description for issue #56
{: #section6-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/95](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/95)

**Gregg Kellogg:** this one is just addressing a request from ivan,  
… to add examples about unexpected behavior of term expansion  
… regarding vocab vs. document's IRI  

#### 6.2. Remove the need for wrapping comment-open/comment-close text in data blocks
{: #section6-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/97](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/97)

**Benjamin Young:** I submitted that one: the goal is to force the content of the script tag to be valid JSON.  
… So we don't recommend to embed the content in XML comments,  
… but avoid strings in the JSON that would break the HTML parsing.  

### 7. Issues
{: #section7}

#### 7.1. Base used to resolve relative URIs to absolute URIs in HTML5 data-blocks (TAG issue)
{: #section7-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312)

**Benjamin Young:** this one does have merged text already; but this issue with the TAG is still open.  
… We don't need to discuss it today, but the TAG wants to discuss this with us eventually.  
… The idea would be to better integrate JSON-LD into the DOM.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think the main topic of our issue is addressed: use the DOM base to resolve relative IRIs.  

**Benjamin Young:** are there other issues? we have to give feedback to the TAG.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/312)

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to close and make new at-risk-ness issue

**Gregg Kellogg:** we should close this and open a new one to track the risk aspects in the text we have.  

**Benjamin Young:** we need to have the call with the TAG, that's a rare thing.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* As then they can see what our solution is, rather than what we propose it will be

> *Rob Sanderson:* And have something concrete to react to

**Benjamin Young:** I will check the process about WD, but I would not want to wait for that to meet them.  

#### 7.2. JSON-LD script elements (data blocks) MUST only contain valid JSON
{: #section7-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/96](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/96)

> *Benjamin Young:* issue related to [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/97](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/97)

**Gregg Kellogg:** what I pushed up there addresses the different aspects of the HTML script content.  
… HTML provides 2 mechanisms: specific backslash escapes in HTML comments, or HTML entities  
… Benjamin proposed to remove the comments, to keep it valid JSON, consistently with the declared content-type.  

**Benjamin Young:** it's similar to injecting HTML tags in a ``<textarea>``, without breaking the textarea.  

**Rob Sanderson:** to be sure i understand, the issue is if you have: `<script>{"label": "<!--"}</script>`   ?  
… No, thankfully, but I see the point  
… And then the pain of double and quadruple escaping
… Thanks for the explanation. Result = :(

**Gregg Kellogg:** I want to be able to copy-paste the content of the script tag into, e.g., the JSON-LD playground.  

**Ivan Herman:** the schema.org pages is full of examples, but none of them has "pathological" examples re. content tags  
… we could try to test their tools and see if they break.  
… We could decide this is an author's problem. JSON-LD in HTML is optional.  
… If authors want to do that, they should know they are not on neutral ground,  

**Rob Sanderson:** Related to what ivan said, and I agree with his opinion ... Can we ask DanBri to find out what about this in current schema.org usage? There's doubtless instances of this sort of thing (`<!--` etc) in the wild, that they might be able to find (or not) with relative ease?  
… and take precautions.  
… Someone **must** have tried to put ``<script>`` in a json-ld block in some attempt to mess with Google :)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** my tool will handle the comments; I don't think they will render the entity escaping correctly  
… We has to check with the structured data tools, and talk with danbri about it.  

**Benjamin Young:** we need to be sure that the authors understand what happens  
… and why JSON-LD from an HTML script tag does not behave differently from JSON-LD from a file  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I'm not sure about a detail: what if I put an entity in a script tag?  
… from JS code, do I get the entity? or is it unescaped?  

> *Ivan Herman:* `"name" : ["my name is <in this>", "&lt;lll&gt;"]` works in the structural testing tool

**Ivan Herman:** both these thinks work as expected  
… both the "<" and the "&lt;" appear as "<"  

**Benjamin Young:** that's what you *see*, but the raw result may be different  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* A better test might be `”name”: [“</script>”]`

**Ivan Herman:** exploring how https://search.google.com/structured-data/testing-tool handles things

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think you're right that they're unescaping them  
… but these are such rare cases  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to "It hurts when I do this" ... "Don't do that then"

**Gregg Kellogg:** maybe we get rid of this whole notation, by saying you MUST only embed text which can be extracted via the HTML DOM  

**Benjamin Young:** doesn't that place the constraint on all of JSON-LD that it could never contain `</script>`  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes. that  

> *David I. Lehn:* i'd like to note you are furthering the difficulty in writing obfuscated json-ld.

**Rob Sanderson:** Potentially also removing an attack vector, security wise  
… But not HTML in JSON(-LD or not) in HTML  
… +1 to it being addressed  

> *Rob Sanderson:* Bye!

---


### 8. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): approve last weeks minutes
