---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-12-14
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-12-14
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2018-12-14

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Dec/0006.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/12/14-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Benjamin Young, Simon Steyskal, Rob Sanderson, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Jeff Mixter, David I. Lehn, Tim Cole

**Regrets:** Harold Solbrig

**Guests:**

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Simon Steyskal

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Benjamin Young:* Zakim: pick a victim

### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-12-07-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-12-07-json-ld)

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to approve minutes

> *Rob Sanderson:* +0 (absent)

**Benjamin Young:** any objections to last week's minutes?  

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: minutes approved***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. 2019 Late Winter Face-to-Face - February 7-8 in Washington, DC
{: #section2-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/F2F/2019.02.DC](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/F2F/2019.02.DC)

**Benjamin Young:** next F2F late winter 2019  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11agKfDU1vTjyKBI_ytLBYFChFCqEfFePNVposnmSW_8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11agKfDU1vTjyKBI_ytLBYFChFCqEfFePNVposnmSW_8/edit)

**Benjamin Young:** we'll meet up in the smithsonian castle; more info to be found in the google docs  
… currently looking for suitable hotels  

**Gregg Kellogg:** harrington (?) hotel  

**Benjamin Young:** the other one we had a look at was a "hampton inn" (?)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I already booked, but you can cancel 24h in advance; 130$/night (via hotels.com)  

#### 2.2. Next call January 4th, 2019 (?)
{: #section2-2}

**Benjamin Young:** I believe this was the consensus of last call  

**Rob Sanderson:** I'm not sure if I can make it  

**Benjamin Young:** maybe we make a role call via email to see who has time  

### 3. Recent Changes/Merges
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Make requirement for entity encoding non-normative
{: #section3-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/106](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/106)

**Benjamin Young:** this first merge made the req. for entity encoding non-normative  

**Gregg Kellogg:** authors may need some guidance  
… they are encouraged to encode  

#### 3.2. Don't do HTML html decoding, and update expand/h010 to reflect this.
{: #section3-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/54](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/54)

**Gregg Kellogg:** it basically says: validate it and turn it in the internal representation  

### 4. WD publication
{: #section4}

**Benjamin Young:** we are due for a WD publication  
… we talked about pushing our publications more often  
… it doesn't need to be voted on by the group  

**Ivan Herman:** there are groups that publish every editor's draft version  

**Gregg Kellogg:** my feeling is that we don't publish enough  
… now is e.g. a very good time for doing so  

> **Proposed resolution: push the current editor's draft to be our new Working Draft** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** we probably should publish whenever we merged some pull requests  

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: push the current editor's draft to be our new Working Draft***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

### 5. Issues
{: #section5}

#### 5.1. Can SRI be used in JSON-LD for which use cases?
{: #section5-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/86](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/86)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/)

**Benjamin Young:** if anyone understands this first issue, we can discuss it  

> *Benjamin Young:* ... SRI = Sub-Resource Integrity

**Benjamin Young:** SRI is something HTML implementors use to state the integrity of things  
… I believe adam wanted to introduce something like SRI for e.g., validating contexts  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it's an intriguing idea, esp. in the context of referencing external contexts  
… it does come with a cost though..  
… I think the motivation behind this was to provide means for side-loading stuff  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#integrity-metadata](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#integrity-metadata)

**Rob Sanderson:** is it about whether we can use the abstract definition of integrity stuff SRI defines  

**Ivan Herman:** there have been 2 diff. issues that came up during TPAC  
… one of them was about using a local version of the context  
… all go in the direction of annotating a link  
… maybe we should postpone this specific issue until we investigated the general picture more thoroughly  

**Benjamin Young:** yeah, people want to be able to state "more" things about a context than they currently can  

> *Benjamin Young:* related to [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/9](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/9)

**Benjamin Young:** i.e., that it is sealed  
… I don't think we have any specific actions to take  

**Rob Sanderson:** I think there's some meta discussion going on  

> **Proposed resolution: someone should open an issue about annotating context URLs potentially with validity/integrity, etc. metadata** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** we may need to introduce new keywords that identify "new metadata" about a context  
… distinction between inline context and reference to metadata of external context  

> **Proposed resolution: azaroth to open an issue about annotating context URLs potentially with validity/integrity, etc. metadata** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**David I. Lehn:** if such metadata feature exists, people may see that as a way to add comments and docs and such as in previous closed issues

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** we should not have the same discussion again in January  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: azaroth to open an issue about annotating context URLs potentially with validity/integrity, etc. metadata***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

#### 5.2. Introduce concept of "sealed” contexts
{: #section5-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/20](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/20)

**David I. Lehn:** we should maybe wait on dlongley for this one  

#### 5.3. Is there a scope context mechanism for clearing context definitions?
{: #section5-3}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/98](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/98)

**Rob Sanderson:** we should give it a deadline, e.g., F2F in feb  

**Benjamin Young:** this issue is also related to scoped contexts  
… most of the hard issues are related to how this relates to sealed contexts  
… maybe @context is an array and the first value of that array is null  
… and the 2nd value is actually a reference to an external context  
… the issue with regard to sealed context, is the fact that because it is sealed it cannot be cleared  
… maybe it needs some special language to do so  

**Rob Sanderson:** seems like it fits to the sealed context discussion, so we should discuss them together  

#### 5.4. Add ability to restrict overriding of terms with graph containers
{: #section5-4}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/87](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/87)

**Benjamin Young:** this was specifically about graph containers  
… related to verifiable claims wg  
… where a claim is represented as graph container, where certain parts need to be sealed  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I guess the way I read this is to perhaps extend the scope ... to graph containers  
… maybe it's addressed by simply allowing sealed contexts to be applied on graph containers  

#### 5.5. Indexing without a predicate
{: #section5-5}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/19)

**Rob Sanderson:** I opened issue 19 initially in the CG  
… based on an observation by 2 communities  

**Rob Sanderson:** last time we discussed this we thought it might be a good fit for framing  
… for creating it; and the context definition for understanding what the particular ... is  
… you could have an "included block" that contains hundreds of items, you only have to reference but don't have to add all everytime you use them  

**Gregg Kellogg:** looks very much like "itemref" of microdata  
… unwinding this in compaction might be challenging to say at least  

**Benjamin Young:** the current container options don't work because they force you to have a name or these?  

**Rob Sanderson:** no, the issue we like to solve -> if you don't have the entire graph in memory, you don't necessarily find the reference for everything  
… i.e. optimizing search  

**Gregg Kellogg:** just noting that there's a CG started on updating N3  
… one of the things they tackle first is adding formula/pattern  
… in RDFa we did something similar by adding some reasoning  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm looking at the example and I'm not sure I understand what the graph is you want to generate out of that?  

**Rob Sanderson:** a very connected one  
… that allows to avoid having to define a specific node every time it is encountered  

**Ivan Herman:** relative URIs within JSON-LD?  
… couldn't we use an internal URL, like one would use in turtle  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I'm a bit confused by Ivan's last example  

**Ivan Herman:** the original problem is "we don't want to repeat things"  
… one way to do this in turtle is to use internal URIs  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** could I extend this by having only the included key in the top-level object and a set of ids in the corresponding object?  
… basically what we discussed during TPAC  

**Rob Sanderson:** we can already do that, so you can have the pattern RDF XML kinda uses  
… but it's a very good point  
… some things we want to have nested, some enumerated  
… potentially a framing algo could say "put these refs separate, but those others nested"  

**Rob Sanderson:** in JSON schema there's a definitions block one can reference  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://json-schema.org/latest/relative-json-pointer.html](https://json-schema.org/latest/relative-json-pointer.html)

**Rob Sanderson:** $ref something something magic  
… I was thinking more about arbitrary ids, or something along those lines  

> *Benjamin Young:* $ref is actually here [https://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-core.html#rfc.section.8.3.2.p.1](https://json-schema.org/latest/json-schema-core.html#rfc.section.8.3.2.p.1)

**Gregg Kellogg:** it kinda looks like nesting?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** [gives example]  

**Rob Sanderson:** I don't _think_ it's a graph container, as there's only one graph. It could be either an identifier container or a nesting container, without a mapped predicate

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** [thinks about possible hacks to do that]  

**Ivan Herman:** not sure which way we want to go  

**Benjamin Young:** no more calls for the rest of the year  

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): minutes approved
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): push the current editor's draft to be our new Working Draft
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): azaroth to open an issue about annotating context URLs potentially with validity/integrity, etc. metadata
