---
layout: minutes
date: 2018-11-16
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2018-11-16
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2018-11-16

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2018Nov/0015.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2018/11/16-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Benjamin Young, Simon Steyskal, Ivan Herman, David Newbury, Gregg Kellogg, Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin, David I. Lehn, Harold Solbrig

**Regrets:** Rob Sanderson, Tim Cole

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Simon Steyskal

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. approval of last week's minutes
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-11-09-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-11-09-json-ld)

> **Proposed resolution: approve minutes and move on ;)** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* f+1

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: approve minutes and move on ;)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

### 2. Face to Face Scheduling
{: #section2}

**Benjamin Young:** we are awaiting some info from adam  

**Adam Soroka:** we are talking about the february meeting? wasn't aware I was supposed to prepare something  

**Adam Soroka:** fewer than a dozen people physically? without actual dates it's complicated for me to fix anything  

**Benjamin Young:** ok, I reached out to wiley as a backup just in case  

**Ivan Herman:** doodle for possible dates?  
… I can't make it at the beginning of feb, ideal would be 18th/19th  
… at the week of the 11th I could only do friday  

**Benjamin Young:** 7th/8th?  

**Ivan Herman:** yeah.. but it's very close to the meeting in Berlin though  

> *Benjamin Young:* scheduling around [https://www.w3.org/Data/events/data-ws-2019/cfp.html](https://www.w3.org/Data/events/data-ws-2019/cfp.html) is preferred

**Benjamin Young:** 7th/8th is thursday/friday of the first week  

> *Adam Soroka:* To be clear, I do not expect any difficulties getting a room at SI for February, I just can't get a reservation w/o dates.

**Ivan Herman:** let's pencil mark the 7th/8th for now  

**Benjamin Young:** any other announcements?  

### 3. What is ‘base’ for embedded json-ld?
{: #section3}

> *Ivan Herman:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/23](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/23)

> *Ivan Herman:* Link of the PR: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/93](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/93)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/50](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/50)

**Benjamin Young:** we discussed that one at tpac  
… we sent it in for TAG review, and they basically widened the scope  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are 2 open PRs  
… 1) basic support for json-ld in html  
… 2) PR-93 adds text to specifically add text to add html as base  
… in the API spec, it's PR-50  

**Adam Soroka:** quick question, what are we expected to do with their comments?  
… shall we respond?  

**Ivan Herman:** what they propose is interesting but beyond our charter  
… this would elevate json-ld  
… but yeah beyond our charter  
… I would say this is something the CG has to pick up  
… and we can cross the bridge at some time, but if this is realistic from a manpower perspective I dont know  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68#issuecomment-438015329](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68#issuecomment-438015329)

**Ivan Herman:** regarding the PR-93, there is some stuff about having XML  

**Benjamin Young:** the thing I just linked shows how script tags affect html parsing  
… it's syntactically correct json-ld  

**Gregg Kellogg:** what I did in the PR-68 I call out specifics on how to handle those blocks if the media type is application/json  
… I think I've taken in the specifics on how content of script tags has to be handled and adjusted in for our needs  
… we asked specific questions to TAG, got an answer but they kinda got a bit over enthusiastic  
… out of this needs to come something that improves web platform  

**Benjamin Young:** the HTML comments stuff as really bothered me since I've read it  
… but it seems to primarily affect only HTML parsing  
… question is how much of this we need to have in the spec  
… json-ld in script tags vs "raw" json-ld  
… both have totally different escaping rules and what not.. and none of that has something to do with html base  

**Ivan Herman:** for the comment storing, the whole section is a normative thing  
… I have the impression this is an HTML problem  
… which we should certainly mention, but maybe not as part of a normative section  

> *Benjamin Young:* HTML5 spec level text about parsing ``<script>`` tags [https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/semantics-scripting.html#restrictions-for-contents-of-script-elements](https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/semantics-scripting.html#restrictions-for-contents-of-script-elements)

**Ivan Herman:** we should officially answer to the TAG and will officially add to the standard what they said about base  
… and that we try to get the CG involved  

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** comments in html and escaping.. it depends on the encoding  
… we don't need to give guidance on how to handle this  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68.html#ex-103-embedding-json-ld-in-html-with-comments](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/68.html#ex-103-embedding-json-ld-in-html-with-comments)

**Ivan Herman:** it has to be valid json-ld  
… that's invalid json  

**Gregg Kellogg:** that's something you see quite often  

> *Benjamin Young:* ivan: because [https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/semantics-scripting.html#restrictions-for-contents-of-script-elements](https://www.w3.org/TR/html5/semantics-scripting.html#restrictions-for-contents-of-script-elements)

**Gregg Kellogg:** comments are often used just to make sure there are no other issues embedded in the script elements that would cause any issues  

**Benjamin Young:** I did quite some digging on that issue  
… the DOM parsing is only concerned with what's inside the tags  
… it's just treated as raw string  
… if there's something inside the json-ld an html parser would choke on  
… the json-ld would need to be treated in such a way such that an html parser wouldn't choke on it  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** one crazy idea by looking at the json-ld embedded in html comments: you could add a js comment in front of the html comment, making it valid javascript  
… it could become technically correct  

**Benjamin Young:** sadly it wouldn't  
… it would continue being parsed  
… we could make it our own parsing space  
… the question is how far the parser gets before it finds the ending script tag  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the json-ld would not be allowed to contain anything that could be interpreted as html and/or html comments  
… not really feasible and also not helping our mission  
… I've outlined multiple approaches to tackle this  
… there are only a few cases where json-ld would contain things that resemble comments  

**Harold Solbrig:** why is this an json-ld issue but not a javascript issue?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** [explains why it isn't]  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it did some test cases for this, exploring corner cases we know of  
… I don't know how to move forward unless addressing at least some of the stuff from the PR  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it describes script tags and data blocks are a subset  

**Benjamin Young:** what's breaking it, is the potential of one to too early close the script tag  
… so this would need somehow being taken care of  
… the risk is, the json-ld could contain content that jacks up the html it's contained in  

**Ivan Herman:** is it so horrible to say, if I put json-ld in a script tag I'm supposed to escape anything that html would need to have escaped  
… thus a json-ld parser would have to do the unescaping  
… but you are in HTML regardless.. so  

**Gregg Kellogg:** for someone who's actually looking at the source, those entities become rather annoying  

**Ivan Herman:** realistically, I don't know how often this would happen  

**Benjamin Young:** the escaping issue is very similar of putting json-ld inside a text env.  

**Ivan Herman:** I think it's perfectly reasonable to accept both PRs, close the issue  
… and open a new issue on the specific problem  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it's a editor's draft not a working draft  

**Ivan Herman:** we would open a issue right away  

**Benjamin Young:** I would only +1 this, if we add a big red AT RISK disclaimer  

**Ivan Herman:** a lot of very important things are pending for now  
… I think it's an edge case  

**Adam Soroka:** I don't think we should use a phrase like "AT RISK" but more something along the lines of "will be part of the final spec but might undergo some changes"  

**Ivan Herman:** we cannot commit ourselves to having always consistent editor's drafts  

**Benjamin Young:** I'm not sure we have reached consensus on all the things contained  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I cannot work on other open issues  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** what about a parameter on the media type hinting at having to do unescaping? (like `application/ld+json;escaped=html`)  

> **Proposed resolution: merge open HTML related PRs #93 and #68 and #50 after adding "At Risk" (or similar terminology) to present that things are not finalized** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** what does "that" mean?  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

**Benjamin Young:** I don't want to have stuff merged without reaching consensus  
… but I could live with having it marked as being "at risk" or similar  

**Ivan Herman:** putting things that are already done "at risk" would be going backwards  
… opening a new issue that highlights things that are still being discussed would be ok  
… having the feeling that ~90% are done  

**Adam Soroka:** I have to generally agree with ivan  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Adam Soroka:** it seems for me very unlikely that we would stop talking about it  

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

**Benjamin Young:** I'm fine with merging those  

> *Simon Steyskal:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: merge open HTML related PRs #93 and #68 and #50 after adding "At Risk" (or similar terminology) to present that things are not finalized***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

**Benjamin Young:** no call next week!  
… eating turkeys and what not ;)  

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): approve minutes and move on ;)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): merge open HTML related PRs #93 and #68 and #50 after adding "At Risk" (or similar terminology) to present that things are not finalized
