---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-01-04
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-01-04
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-01-04

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jan/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/01/04-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Ivan Herman, Benjamin Young, David Newbury, Adam Soroka, Gregg Kellogg, Jeff Mixter, Harold Solbrig, Tim Cole, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Rob Sanderson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-12-14-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2018/2018-12-14-json-ld)

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: last year's last minutes accepted***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. 2019 Winter Face-to-Face - February 7-8 in Washington, DC
{: #section2}

**Adam Soroka:** if the govt is open at the time.  
… if it's closed, these buildings will not be open  
… I'm consequently on furlough at the moment  
… and my time will need to go elsewhere depending on how this plays out  
… however the F2F is scheduled in a government office  
… so if that doesn't change, we won't be able to meet there  

> *Benjamin Young:* [general moans, etc]

**Benjamin Young:** will investigate Wiley as an alternative host  

**Benjamin Young:** which would imply rebooking flights  

**Ivan Herman:** that's a problem!  

**Benjamin Young:** yes, let's try to meeting DC, to avoid changing tickets  

**Tim Cole:** we might want to find a contact at UMaryland  

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

**Adam Soroka:** I do know some of those folks too, and would be happy to take that on  

**David Newbury:** Could reach out to the Folger Library  

**Benjamin Young:** also I know some folks at the American Geophysical Union  

**Harold Solbrig:** potentially JHU could host if needed, but sounds like we have some options closer  

**Benjamin Young:** let's list our potential sites in the planning Google Doc  

**Harold Solbrig:** Shall we set a cut-off date for this?  

**Ivan Herman:** end of the month?  

**Benjamin Young:** Yes, 31 jan  

**Benjamin Young:** let's use the google Doc with the agenda to plan this as well  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/11agKfDU1vTjyKBI_ytLBYFChFCqEfFePNVposnmSW_8/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11agKfDU1vTjyKBI_ytLBYFChFCqEfFePNVposnmSW_8/edit)

### 3. Pending Pull Request: Improve [framing] intro
{: #section3}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/33](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/33)

**Benjamin Young:** there's a PR pending review, has had some feedback  

**Benjamin Young:** dlehn offered some tweaks  
… if folks could help move that forward, that would be great  

**Ivan Herman:** this seems editorial  
… can just leave this to the editor  

**Benjamin Young:** just announcing this to make sure everyone knows what's about tto be merged  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. HTTP parameters for specifying context or frame
{: #section4-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/8](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/8)

> *Benjamin Young:* * syntax - [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/111](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/111)

> *Benjamin Young:* * framing - [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34)

> *Benjamin Young:* * api - [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/56](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/56) (work in progress)

**Benjamin Young:** gkellogg has the lion's share of the work done on this  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the first PR (syntax doc, #111) pretty much ready to go  
… removed language about quotes for the value of profile params  
… which is not true in general  
… only if multiple URIs are used, and added some examples with different types of profile params  

**Ivan Herman:** I had a comment on that  
… content, not editorial  
… a sentence says that JSON-LD processors may restrict URIs for context and frames  
… which I read as saying, "If I'm a JSON-LD processor, I can refuse any context except this particular one"  
… is that really what we mean  

**Gregg Kellogg:** well, this could become an attack vector, so we allow servers to restrict the action  

**Gregg Kellogg:** framing is potentially expensive computationally  
… and people have demonstrated attacks via context  
… which we think we've mostly fixed, but obviously we can't rule it entirely out  
… going back to the CG, there was this desire to restrict present there  

**Ivan Herman:** i have two problems...  
… this is clearly non-editorial  
… have we discussed/voted on this restriction?  
… shouldn't be in an editorial PR.  
… I don't understand the problem this solves  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is part of the request header.  

**Ivan Herman:** oh, the request header? (not the response)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this signals the server as to what the client wants  
… the server must examine the profile param and if it isn't acceptable, return a 406  
… this new language just gives license to the server to do just that if the context is unacceptable  
… you could also fall-back in various ways  

**Ivan Herman:** Okay, I misunderstood what was done, so that's okay  
… but still, this is more than editorial  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't say that this _is_ editorial  
… I folded in the previous discussions on this  

**Ivan Herman:** sorry for the interrupt, fine with this. I will put in a link to this discussion into the PR  
… must be documented, now it is  
… we just want to document that everyone is fine with this  

**Benjamin Young:** I've got a nit  
… about the quotes being optional save for multiple URIs  

**Gregg Kellogg:** for spaces  
… and I show examples of this  
… we don't mandate that single spaces must be used  
… it's just whitespace as defined by the rFC  

**Benjamin Young:** okay, thanks  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we have also the PR for the API doc  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/56](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/56)

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is w-i-p on the API at that PR  
… framing was a more minor change  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34)

**Gregg Kellogg:** the controversial point bigbluehat raised is whether adding a framing URI changes the semantics enough to make it inappropriate  
… as a profile param  
… online discussion indicates not  
… the change requires the profile param  
… which changes current behavior for people requesting frames  
… there might b more changes requireed for this for optinality  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the idea was that a frame would be represented by a mimetype  
… but no one implemented that  
… and now we've moved to using a profile param for frame  
… so the question is, must the profile param appear, or is it optional/advisory  
… this param is for getting a doc that _is_ a frame  
… and would appear on the response as well  

**Benjamin Young:** yes, we would want that on the response as well  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906)

**Gregg Kellogg:** we need more discussion on that PR  

> *Adam Soroka:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/pull/34)

**Gregg Kellogg:** the API PR (https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/56) is just tests for this new behavior  
… I couldn't see what language to add to the API, otherwise  
… the API do is concerned with what happens once you've requested a doc and are processing the result  
… we don't need to specify how to use an Accept header  

**Benjamin Young:** this would only be for requesting a single doc in various representation  
… I'm glad that framed docs aren't new mediatypes  
… but it seems unlikely that one document would be all the things at once (frame, context, instance)  

**Gregg Kellogg:** but you aren't requesting a doc, you are requesting a resource.  
… e.g. for SPARQL users  

**Gregg Kellogg:** profile contains one or more of our URIs, as well as URLs to contexts, frames, etc.  

**David Newbury:** a real-world example: we have resources we'd like to be able to provide either as schema.org or CIDOC-CRM  
… same data, difference context/framing  

**Gregg Kellogg:** only the non-registered URLS would be treated as dereferencable  
… similar to when the mimetype is just application/json and you stick the contet in a header  

**Benjamin Young:** this is where I get concerned about violating the RFC-- the profile param shouldn't be dereferenced  

**Gregg Kellogg:** good point...  
… my impression was that we could define this behavior, but we do need to review  

**Benjamin Young:** in the Web Annotation we avoided triggering new representations via the profile param, only selecting from extant representations  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906)

**Benjamin Young:** this is a supernice feature, but is this where it belongs?  

**Ivan Herman:** what the RFC (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906#section-3) does say is:  

> "A profile MUST NOT change the semantics of the resource representation when processed without profile knowledge, so that clients both with and without knowledge of a profiled resource can safely use the same representation."

> *Benjamin Young:* There is also [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4288#section-4.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4288#section-4.3)

**Ivan Herman:** so this may indeed be a problem  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the use of a context _does not_ change the semantics of a representation, just the syntax  

**Benjamin Young:** it's the functionality concern  
… if these are URLs (not merely URIs) they will be looked up and used for computation  

**Ivan Herman:** it is an identifier; to quote further from https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906#section-3:  

> "Profiles are identified by URI.  However, as is the case with, for example, XML namespace URIs, the URI in this case only serves as an identifier,"

**Ivan Herman:** it is at the beginning of that section  

**Gregg Kellogg:** rfc4288#section-4.3 is a different case of profile: that's the header vs the mimetype

**Gregg Kellogg:** e.g. dc:name vs schema:name  
… totally different graphs  
… but for framing, it's the same graph  
… and client can reframe or re-compact or whatever  
… for bigbluehat's case, where there's a range of possible contexts...  
… two ways to interpret that: first, I want the Schema context vs the DC context  
… or, I want "name" vs "schema:name" where the terms used are different  

**Benjamin Young:** in the case of conneg, you could list _several_ contexts  
… and the sever will compute on your request and select something  
… that's not a processing instruction  
… that's a great idea, but it should go in a different box  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** not fully agree with gkellogg about changing strings in the JSON for different contexts  
… in both cases, the semantics are the same  
… the condition for selecting different vocabularies is that the semantics of the vocabularies is the same  
… in both cases, the changes are at the syntax level, just at concrete or abstract syntax  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we look at the test suite, what might be considered?  
… one, you can take the result, expand it, and compare  
… or two, turn them into RDF and compare the graphs for isomorphism  
… (or in framing, a strict subgraph relationship)  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to gregg

**David Newbury:** I'm assuming that I have all the data and am just selecting from it, not doing new processing  

**Ivan Herman:** whither shall we wander?  
… what do we do if profiles are not the correct choice?  
… our own request header?  
… is there an extant header we can adopt?  

**Benjamin Young:** Profile seems like the wrong vehicle for this signaling, but we cannot discard the use case  

> **Proposed resolution: limit `profile` parameter use to URI's, but continue to pursue an alternative to the `profile` media type parameter for client-signaled frames and contexts URLs for servers to (potentially) use when providing responses** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#interpreting-json-as-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/#interpreting-json-as-json-ld)

**Gregg Kellogg:** we might borrow from the way we handle application/json  
… in a response header, we add a link header targeting the context  
… we could use a Link header on the request  

**Ivan Herman:** we would need a more detailed description  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8288](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8288)

**Benjamin Young:** you sure can use a Link header on the request  
… but let's get to a proposal  
… we need to get URLs out of the profiles  
… and there is clear desire in the group for this functionality  
… link rel= might be a nice way to do that  

> **Proposed resolution: limit `profile` parameter use to URI's, but continue to pursue an alternative to the `profile` media type parameter for client-signaled frames and contexts URLs for servers to (potentially) use when providing responses** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** do we suspend all three PRs?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** not necessarily framing, but that needs its own discussion  

> *David Newbury:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Gregg Kellogg:** if there is no actual language in the API doc, the tests that have been added there might belong in the syntax doc  

> ***Resolution #2: limit `profile` parameter use to URI's, but continue to pursue an alternative to the `profile` media type parameter for client-signaled frames and contexts URLs for servers to (potentially) use when providing responses***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Benjamin Young:** let's leave it to gkellogg as to how he'd like to manage the PRs, whether to add more commits or start afresh or whatever  

#### 4.2. Content addressable contexts & hashlink
{: #section4-2}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jan/0000.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Jan/0000.html)

**Ivan Herman:** it is interesting, no doubt  
… (puts admin hat on)  
… these are very early drafts  
… Manu made this proposal in December, very early days  
… we're fine, though.  
… if the technique becomes a standard form for URIs, we can use it as such  
… I'm happy to have us say that we are interested  
… we should try to see whether this tech really can be used to annotate links while we also pursue other avenues  

**Gregg Kellogg:** really like the idea, could be very useful  

**Gregg Kellogg:** but not clear that it really affects our docs at all  
… what would we change?  

**Ivan Herman:** we shouldn't close issues just because this new thing is a new thing  

**Gregg Kellogg:** unless we think that we can do that via a reference in the best practice docs  

**Adam Soroka:** if hashlink solves for problems we have, then we may not want to recreate alternative features that solve the same issues  

> *Benjamin Young:* scribenick ajs6f

> *Adam Soroka:* bigbluehat: although this new hash URI tech isn't standardized, it _has_ been put into use

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): last year's last minutes accepted
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): limit `profile` parameter use to URI's, but continue to pursue an alternative to the `profile` media type parameter for client-signaled frames and contexts URLs for servers to (potentially) use when providing responses
